Class:

As mentioned, the final exam will be next Tue (12/13/2022) during the normal lecture hours (between 11 AM and 12:15 PM ET).

The exam will be comprehensive and will cover all of the chapters (Ch. 1, 6, 2, 3, 4 and 7) as well as the types of SQL queries we covered in the homework assignments. The exam will have around 5 questions, and the format and types of questions will be similar to those on the midterm exam.

KEY: X = studied

O Standard SQL queries (for these types of queries, you're only allowed to use standard SQL syntax covered in class, and 5 standard aggregate functions, i.e., sum(), count(), avg(), max(), min()).
O Relational Expressions.
O Given an SQL query, convert it to a relational expression, and vice versa.
X. Given an SQL query in one format, convert it to a different format (e.g., Nested Sub-Query to non-Nested Sub-Query, etc.).
*. Questions about key concepts – as was the case on the midterm exam, I'm looking for answers "in your own words" (vs., taking answers from exercise questions, slides, etc.). For that reason, I expect everyone's answers to be "unique" (i.e., not resembling someone else's answers), but they also must be accurate and precise.

Some of the topics include (but not limited to):
O  Good tables vs. bad tables
O  Design process
O  BCNF
O  3NF
O  LLJD (Lossless Join Decomposition)
O  Dependency Preservation
O  Various types of keys: Super keys, Candidate keys, Primary keys, Foreign keys
O  Decomposition
O  Armstrong’s Axioms + additional axioms derived from Armstrong's Axioms (including proofs, as in the exercise questions)
O  Functional Dependencies
O  Closure of Attribute Sets
O  Set vs. Multi-Set
O  Entity sets, Relationship sets
O  Relation, Domain, Atomic Domain
O  Cartesian Product vs. Joins
O  Various Join types
O  Derived Relations/Tables
O  WITH, VIEWS
X  Nested Sub-Queries
O  DDL (e.g., domain constraints, check clause, referential integrity)

/home/ddauphin/srsRAN/srsRAN/srsue/src/stack/rrc_nr/rrc_nr.cc
Line 619
Offset 74-76
